Brian Krebs, "What We Can Learn from the Capital One Hack", KrebsOnSecurity, August 2, 2019.
Source: https://krebsonsecurity.com/2019/08/what-we-can-learn-from-the-capital-one-hack/
Fetched 2026-09-01. RETELLING (press; "based on interviews with almost a dozen security
experts, including one who is privy to details about the ongoing breach investigation").
Only the sentences quoted in the chapter or ledger:

"Since then, many have speculated the breach was perhaps the result of a previously unknown
'zero-day' flaw, or an 'insider' attack in which the accused took advantage of access
surreptitiously obtained from her former employer. But new information indicates the methods
she deployed have been well understood for years."

"According to a source with direct knowledge of the breach investigation, the problem
stemmed in part from a misconfigured open-source Web Application Firewall (WAF) that Capital
One was using as part of its operations hosted in the cloud with Amazon Web Services (AWS)."

"The misconfiguration of the WAF allowed the intruder to trick the firewall into relaying
requests to a key back-end resource on the AWS platform. This resource, known as the
'metadata' service, is responsible for handing out temporary information to a cloud server,
including current credentials sent from a security service to access any resource in the
cloud to which that server has access."

"In Capital One's case, the misconfigured WAF for whatever reason was assigned too many
permissions, i.e. it was allowed to list all of the files in any buckets of data, and to
read the contents of each of those files."

"The type of vulnerability exploited by the intruder in the Capital One hack is a well-known
method called a 'Server Side Request Forgery' (SSRF) attack, in which a server (in this
case, CapOne's WAF) can be tricked into running commands that it should never have been
permitted to run, including those that allow it to talk to the metadata service."

[Evan Johnson, Cloudflare, quoted:] "SSRF has become the most serious vulnerability facing
organizations that use public clouds," Johnson wrote. "The impact of SSRF is being worsened
by the offering of public clouds, and the major players like AWS are not doing anything to
fix it. The problem is common and well-known, but hard to prevent and does not have any
mitigations built into the AWS platform."

[Amazon statement to Krebs:] "The intrusion was caused by a misconfiguration of a web
application firewall and not the underlying infrastructure or the location of the
infrastructure."
