# CISA/FBI, "Secure by Design Alert: Eliminating SQL Injection Vulnerabilities in Software", TLP:CLEAR, "As of March 2024" (web page dated 2024-03-25). PDF alongside (gitignored). Fetched 2026-09-02 via WebFetch (PDF), text by pdftotext. Full text.

                                                                                                                           TLP:CLEAR

                                  Secure by Design Alert
                                  Eliminating SQL Injection
                                  Vulnerabilities in Software



    Malicious Cyber Actors Use SQL Injection Vulnerabilities to Compromise Systems
    SQL injection—or SQLi—vulnerabilities remain a persistent class
    of defect in commercial software products. 1 Despite widespread         The software industry has known how to
                                                                            eliminate these defects at scale for decades.
    knowledge and documentation of SQLi vulnerabilities over the
                                                                            MySQL introduced prepared statements,
    past two decades, along with the availability of effective              which can eliminate SQL injection
    mitigations, software manufacturers have continued to develop           vulnerabilities, in 2004.2
    products with this defect, which puts many customers at risk. 2
    CISA and the FBI are releasing this Secure by Design Alert in response to a recent well-publicized malicious threat actor
    campaign that exploited SQLi defects in a managed file transfer application to target and compromise users of that
    application—impacting thousands of organizations. CISA and the FBI urge senior executives at technology manufacturers
    to mount a formal review of their code to determine its susceptibility to SQLi compromises and encourage all technology
    customers to ask their vendors whether they have conducted such a review. If they discover their code has vulnerabilities,
    senior executives should ensure their organizations’ software developers immediately begin implementing mitigations to
    eliminate this entire class of defect from all current and future software products. 3 Building security into products from
    the beginning can eliminate SQLi vulnerabilities.

    Secure by Design Lessons to Learn
    Secure by Design means that manufacturers design and build their products in a way that reasonably protects against
    malicious cyber actors successfully exploiting product defects. Incorporating this mitigation at the outset—beginning in the
    design phase and continuing through development, release, and updates—reduces the burden of cybersecurity on
    customers and risk to the public. Vulnerabilities like SQLi have been considered by others an ‘unforgivable’ vulnerability
    since at least 2007. Despite this finding, SQL vulnerabilities (such as CWE-89) are still a prevalent class of vulnerability.
    For example, CWE-89 is on top 25 lists for both the most dangerous and stubborn software weaknesses in 2023. 4

    What Are SQL Injection Vulnerabilities?
    SQL injection vulnerabilities involve the insertion of user-supplied input directly into a SQL command, allowing threat
    actors to execute arbitrary queries (see CWE-89: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command
    ['SQL Injection']). SQLi vulnerabilities are caused by software developers’ inattention to security best practices, resulting in
    the co-mingling of database queries and user-supplied data. The impact of successful SQLi exploitation can be
    devastating as it challenges the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of a database and its information. Specifically,
    SQLi vulnerabilities can allow malicious cyber actors to steal sensitive information, tamper with, delete, or render
    information unavailable in a database. SQL injections succeed because software developers fail to treat user-supplied
    content as potentially malicious.


    1 OWASP Foundation. “SQL Injection.” n.d. https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/SQL_Injection.
    2 In 2004, MySQL introduced a technique called “prepared statements” that separate database commands from untrustworthy data, thereby

    eliminating SQL injection vulnerabilities. See: MySQL. "Changes in release 4.1.3 (28 Jun 2004: Beta).” June 28, 2004.
    https://web.archive.org/web/20060422175612/http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/4.1/en/news-4-1-3.html.
    3 OWASP Foundation. “SQL Injection Prevention Cheat Sheet.” n.d.

    https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html.
    4 “2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous and Stubborn Software Weaknesses in the CWE Top 25.” MITRE’s CWE Top 25, 2023.

    https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/archive/2023/2023_top25_list.html,https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/archive/2023/2023_stubborn_weaknesse
    s.html
    This document is marked TLP:CLEAR. Recipients may share this information without restriction. Information is subject to standard
    copyright rules. For more information on the Traffic Light Protocol, see https://www.cisa.gov/tlp.
                                                                                                                            TLP:CLEAR

cisa.gov             central @cisa.dhs.gov           @CISA.gov @CISACyber                           @cisa.gov                      As of March 2024
Secure by Design Alert: Eliminating SQL Injection Vulnerabilities in Software                                                  TLP:CLEAR



     How Can Software Manufacturers Prevent SQL Injections?
     During the design and development of a software product, developers should use parameterized queries with prepared
     statements to separate SQL code from user-supplied data to prevent this class of vulnerability. This separation ensures
     the system treats user input as data and not executable code, thereby eliminating the risk of malicious user input being
     interpreted as a SQL statement. Software manufacturers should systemically eliminate SQLi vulnerabilities by enforcing
     the use of parametrized queries across their applications. Note: Some developers attempt to use input sanitization
     techniques to prevent SQLi vulnerabilities. While input sanitization may prevent some attacks, those techniques are
     brittle, difficult to enforce at scale, and frequently can be bypassed. Parameterized queries therefore better embody a
     secure by design approach.

     CISA and the FBI recommend software manufacturers research the causes and widely known solutions to this predictable
     and commonly exploited vulnerability. Additionally, CISA and the FBI encourage manufacturers to review the following
     three principles of the joint guidance, Shifting the Balance of Cybersecurity Risk: Principles and Approaches for Secure by
     Design Software.

     Principle 1: Take Ownership of Customer Security Outcomes
     There are key security areas manufacturers should invest in to protect their customers as well as the public. These
     include providing safe building blocks for their software developers to ensure that a single developer error does not
     compromise data of millions of users. Software manufacturers should adopt the use of prepared statements with
     parametrized queries as a standard practice in software development. This should be enforced in their development
     environments via, for instance, development libraries that make the secure route the default one for developers and
     checks at the time of pull requests.
     Additionally, senior executives at software manufacturers must take accountability for the security of their customers
     starting by conducting formal reviews of their code to determine their susceptibility to attack. A simple code review would
     reveal the prevalence of this well-known class of vulnerability---with clear and effective mitigations readily and publicly
     available. Manufacturers and developers should take ownership of securing products by defaulting to parametrized
     queries, thereby eliminating an entire class threat.

     Principle 2: Embrace Radical Transparency and Accountability
     Manufacturers should lead with transparency when disclosing product vulnerabilities. To that end, manufacturers should
     track the classes of vulnerability associated with their software and disclose them to their customers via the CVE
     program. Manufacturers should ensure that their CVE records are correct and complete. It is especially important that
     manufacturers supply an accurate CWE so the industry can track classes of software defect, not just individual CVEs, and
     customers can understand areas where a given vendor’s development practices may require improvement. 5 They should
     also identify and document the root causes of those vulnerabilities and declare it a business goal to work toward
     eliminating entire classes of vulnerability.

     Principle 3: Build Organizational Structure and Leadership to Achieve These Goals
     Just as software and hardware manufacturing executives care about cost, features, and customer experience, they
     should also prioritize the security of their products. Leaders must consider the full picture: that customers, our economy,
     and our national security are currently bearing the brunt of business decisions to not build security into their products—as
     the threat actor campaign described earlier in this Alert clearly reflects. Moreover, directing the business toward secure by
     design software development often reduces financial and productivity costs as well as complexity. Leaders should make
     the appropriate investments and develop the right incentive structures that promote security as a stated business goal.




     5 Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) classification identifies classes of software/hardware weaknesses (including vulnerabilities and

     defects); Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) classification identifies and labels unique vulnerabilities in specific
     software/hardware products.

                                                                                                                               TLP:CLEAR
cisa.gov       Secure-by-Design@cisa.dhs.gov          @CISA.gov @CISACyber                           @cisa.gov                        As of March 2024
Secure by Design Alert: Eliminating SQL Injection Vulnerabilities in Software                                      TLP:CLEAR



     Leaders should highlight the importance of rooting out entire classes of vulnerabilities rather than addressing them on a
     case-by-case basis. Additionally, leaders should establish organizational structures that prioritize proactive measures,
     such as adopting secure coding practices like parametrized queries, to create enduring security and reduce reliance on
     reactive responses. Senior executives should also ensure their organization conducts reviews to detect common and well-
     known vulnerabilities, like SQLi, to determine their susceptibility, and implement the existing effective and documented
     mitigations. These reviews should be continually conducted to root out classes of vulnerability, as some vulnerabilities
     may change or develop over time.

     Action Item for Software Manufacturers
     Although this Secure by Design Alert focuses on approaches to mitigate SQL injections as a class of defect, it is just one
     part of a more comprehensive set of secure by design practices. To protect their customers from a wide range of
     malicious cyber activity, manufacturers should fully implement the principles and practices touched upon in this alert by
     reviewing Shifting the Balance of Cybersecurity Risk: Principles and Approaches for Secure by Design Software. Further,
     CISA and the FBI urge manufacturers to publish their own secure by design roadmap to demonstrate that they are not
     simply implementing tactical controls but are strategically rethinking their responsibility in keeping customers safe.




                                                                                                                   TLP:CLEAR
cisa.gov      Secure-by-Design@cisa.dhs.gov      @CISA.gov @CISACyber                       @cisa.gov                    As of March 2024
