# U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, In re: MOVEit Customer Data Security Breach Litigation, MDL No. 3083, Transfer Order, Doc. 312, filed 2023-10-04 (pp. 1-3 excerpted; PDF alongside, gitignored). Fetched 2026-09-02.

         Before the Panel: * Plaintiff in the District of Minnesota Bailey action moves under 28
U.S.C. § 1407 to centralize this litigation regarding a vulnerability in a widely-used file transfer
software in the District of Minnesota. Plaintiff’s motion includes ten actions pending in five
districts, as listed on Schedule A. Since the filing of the motion, the Panel has been notified of 91
related actions in 22 districts. 1

       The parties differ significantly as to whether we should create an MDL, what defendants
should be included in that MDL, and where any MDL should be centralized. Plaintiffs in 33
actions and potential tag-along actions support centralization. The following defendants also
support centralization: Progress Software Corp. and Ipswitch, Inc. (collectively, Progress);
Pension Benefits Information, LLC, and Berwyn Group (collectively, PBI); 2 Athene Annuity and
Life Company; F&G Annuities & Life, Inc.; Genworth Financial, Inc.; Milliman, Inc. and
Milliman Solutions, LLC; and Union Bank and Trust Company. Fidelity Investments Institutional
Operations Company LLC and FMR LLC do not oppose centralization.

        Several parties oppose centralization, and others oppose transfer of their cases or, more
broadly, cases brought against certain defendants. Plaintiffs in the Northern District of California
Berry/Ng action oppose centralization and, alternatively, request exclusion of their putative
statewide class action from the MDL. Plaintiffs in the Eastern District of Virginia Harding, Hale,
and Smith and the District of New Jersey Weissman potential tag-along actions oppose
centralization; at oral argument, certain of these plaintiffs suggested that we create a limited-
purpose MDL for discovery of claims against only Progress. Plaintiffs in the Eastern District of


*
   Judges David C. Norton and Roger T. Benitez took no part in the decision of this matter.
Additionally, one or more Panel members who could be members of the putative classes in this
litigation have renounced their participation in these classes and have participated in this decision.
1
 These and any other related actions are potential tag-along actions. See Panel Rules 1.1(h), 7.1
and 7.2.
2
 Defendant PBI is a prominent user of MOVEit software that provides audit and address research
services, including identifying decedents, lost participants or policyholders, and beneficiaries to
pensions, insurance companies, third-party administrators, financial institutions, and other entities.
             Case MDL No. 3083 Document 312 Filed 10/04/23 Page 2 of 6

                                                -2-


Virginia King and Manar potential tag-along actions oppose transfer of their actions. Plaintiffs in
the District of Maryland Hunter and Gregory potential tag-along actions oppose transfer of cases
against the Johns Hopkins defendants. Plaintiff in the Eastern District of Virginia Behrens
potential tag-along action opposes centralization and, alternatively, suggests centralization in
District of Minnesota for cases against only Progress and PBI. Defendant Illinois Department of
Innovation and Technology opposes transfer of the Central District of Illinois Acevedo potential
tag-along action, largely on Eleventh Amendment immunity grounds. The Johns Hopkins
defendants 3 in five District of Maryland potential tag-along actions oppose including the claims
against them in any MDL and, alternatively, request separation and remand of the claims against
them or, further, that actions in which they and Progress are defendants proceed in the District of
Maryland. Plaintiffs in four Southern District of New York potential tag-along actions and
Defendant Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America (TIAA) oppose inclusion of
the cases against TIAA in any MDL. Plaintiffs in four potential tag-along actions against the
Milliman defendants oppose inclusion of cases against Milliman in any MDL. Potential tag-along
plaintiff in the District of Nebraska Jeanfort action opposes centralization of cases that do not
exclusively name PBI or Progress as defendants. Potential tag-along plaintiffs in the District of
Oregon Malo action oppose centralization of their claims against Performance Health Technology.
Defendants Maximus, Inc. and Maximus Federal Services, Inc., oppose centralization (but take no
position on creating an MDL involving only Progress) and, alternatively, request exclusion of
cases against them from any MDL. Defendant Prudential opposes centralization and, alternatively,
suggests separation and remand of the claims against it.

        The parties variously, as their primary or alternative position, support centralization in one
or more of the following districts: the Northern District of California, the Eastern District of
Louisiana, the District of Massachusetts, the District of Minnesota, the District of Nebraska, and
the Eastern District of Virginia. Certain parties ask that we create defendant-specific MDLs for
their claims against Milliman entities, Maximus entities, Genworth Financial entities, and TD
Ameritrade.

         After considering the argument of counsel, we find that centralization of these actions in
the District of Massachusetts will serve the convenience of the parties and witnesses and promote
the just and efficient conduct of the litigation. All actions can be expected to share factual
questions arising from allegations that a vulnerability in Progress Software Company’s MOVEit
Transfer and MOVEit Cloud file transfer services was exploited by a Russian cybergang in May
2023, which to date is estimated to have compromised the personally identifying information (PII) 4
of over 55 million people. On May 31, 2023, Progress posted a notice on its website stating it had
discovered an SQL injection vulnerability in its MOVEit file transfer services and a related breach
in its network and systems. Plaintiffs are individuals whose PII was potentially compromised who

to share common and complex factual questions as to how the MOVEit vulnerability occurred, the
circumstances of the unauthorized access and data exfiltration, and Progress’s response to it, as
well as the response of various downstream MOVEit users and customer-facing defendants with
whom plaintiffs did business. Centralization offers substantial opportunities to streamline pretrial
proceedings; reduce duplicative discovery and conflicting pretrial obligations; prevent inconsistent
rulings on common Daubert challenges and summary judgment motions; and conserve the
