# Mandiant (Google Cloud blog), Zaveri/Kennelly/Stark, "Zero-Day Vulnerability in MOVEit Transfer Exploited for Data Theft", 2023-06-02, updated 2023-06-09. Fetched 2026-09-02. Verbatim excerpts.

UPDATE (June 9): On June 6, 2023, Mandiant merged UNC4857 into FIN11 based on targeting, infrastructure, certificate and data leak site (DLS) overlaps. This blog post has been updated to reflect the new attribution and supporting evidence.

Mandiant has observed wide exploitation of a zero-day vulnerability in the MOVEit Transfer secure managed file transfer software for subsequent data theft. This vulnerability was announced by Progress Software Corporation on May 31, 2023 and has been assigned CVE-2023-34362. Based on initial analysis from Mandiant incident response engagements, the earliest evidence of exploitation occurred on May 27, 2023 resulting in deployment of web shells and data theft. In some instances, data theft has occurred within minutes of the deployment of web shells. The seemingly opportunistic nature of this campaign and the subsequent data theft is consistent with activity we’ve seen from extortion actors; however, victims did not initially receive any ransom demands. Then on June 6, 2023, a post on the CL0P^_-LEAKS data leak site (DLS) claimed responsibility for this activity and threatened to post stolen data if victims did not pay an extortion fee. Mandiant initially attributed this activity to UNC4857, which has now been merged into FIN11 based on targeting, infrastructure, certificate, and DLS overlaps. This campaign has impacted organizations operating in a wide range of industries based in Canada, India, and the U.S., but the impact is almost certainly broader than Mandiant has directly observed.

Following exploitation of the vulnerability, the threat actors are deploying a newly discovered LEMURLOOT web shell with filenames that masquerade as human.aspx, which is a legitimate component of the MOVEit Transfer software. Mandiant has observed several POST requests made to the legitimate guestaccess.aspx file before interaction with the LEMURLOOT webshell, indicating SQL injection attacks were directed towards that file.

We have observed LEMURLOOT samples with the filenames human2.aspx and _human2.aspx. Various samples with the name human2.aspx were uploaded to VirusTotal beginning on May 28, 2023. Samples of LEMURLOOT have been uploaded to public repositories from several additional countries—including Italy, Pakistan, and Germany—suggesting that UNC4857 has also impacted organizations in these nations.

LEMURLOOT is a web shell written in C# tailored to interact with the MOVEit Transfer platform. The malware authenticates incoming connections via a hard-coded password and can run commands that will download files from the MOVEit Transfer system, extract its Azure system settings, retrieve detailed record information, create and insert a particular user, or delete this same user. Data returned to the system interacting with LEMURLOOT is gzip compressed.

Mandiant has observed wide exploitation of a zero-day vulnerability in the MOVEit Transfer secure managed file transfer software for subsequent data theft. This vulnerability was announced by Progress Software Corporation on May 31, 2023 and has been assigned CVE-2023-34362. Based on initial analysis from Mandiant incident response engagements, the earliest evidence of exploitation occurred on May 27, 2023 resulting in deployment of web shells and data theft. In some instances, data theft has occurred within minutes of the deployment of web shells. The seemingly opportunistic nature of this campaign and the subsequent data theft is consistent with activity we’ve seen from extortion actors; however, victims did not initially receive any ransom demands. Then on June 6, 2023, a post on the CL0P^_-LEAKS data leak site (DLS) claimed responsibility for this activity and threatened to post stolen data if victims did not pay an extortion fee. Mandiant initially attributed this activity to UNC4857, which has now been merged into FIN11 based on targeting, infrastructure, certificate, and DLS overlaps. This campaign has impacted organizations operating in a wide range of industries based in Canada, India, and the U.S., but the impact is almost certainly broader than Mandiant has directly observed.

FIN11-attributed data theft extortion has occurred following exploitation of multiple other file transfer systems. From late 2020 to early 2021, threat actors exploited multiple zero-day vulnerabilities in Accellion's legacy File Transfer Appliance (FTA) to install the DEWMODE web shell. Similarly, in early 2023, threat actors exploited GoAnywhere Managed File Transfer (MFT) vulnerability CVE-2023-0669.

On June 5, 2023, Bleeping Computer claimed that someone affiliated with the CLOP ransomware group stated that they were behind incidents in which the MOVEit transfer system vulnerability was exploited for data theft. On June 6, 2023, a post on the CL0P^_- LEAKS DLS claimed responsibility for this activity (Figure 2).

Mandiant has not yet directly observed any extortion emails sent to confirmed victims. However, in prior cases where FIN11 exploited vulnerabilities in secure file transfer systems, the threat actors did not send extortion emails demanding a payment in return for not publishing the data on the CL0P^_- LEAKS DLS until several weeks later. It is plausible that FIN11 delayed sending the ransom emails in an attempt to extend the amount of time that the zero-day vulnerabilities remained undetected and thus increase the number of victims and/or capacity to negotiate with a large number of victims simultaneously. Although the CLOP brand has posted to their DLS suggesting victims should initiate contact, if their TTPs remain consistent it is likely that the group will begin to initiate contact with some impacted organizations in the coming days and/or weeks.
