# Progress Software Corp., Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 2023-08-31, filed 2023-10-10 (EDGAR 0000876167-23-000190). Fetched 2026-09-02. Verbatim excerpts: Note "MOVEit Vulnerability"; MD&A "Recent Developments: MOVEit Vulnerability"; risk factor.

Recent Developments: MOVEit Vulnerability
Description of Event
As disclosed via a Form 8-K filed on June 5, 2023, on the evening of May 28, 2023 (Eastern Time), our MOVEit technical support team received an initial customer support call indicating unusual activity within their MOVEit Transfer instance. An investigative team was mobilized and, on May 30, 2023, the investigative team discovered a zero-day vulnerability in MOVEit Transfer (including our cloud-hosted version of MOVEit Transfer known as MOVEit Cloud). The investigative team determined the zero-day vulnerability (the “MOVEit Vulnerability”) could provide for unauthorized escalated privileges and access to the customer’s underlying environment in both MOVEit Transfer (the on-premise version) and MOVEit Cloud (a cloud-hosted version of MOVEit Transfer that we deploy in both (i) a public cloud format, as well as, (ii) for a small group of 
32
customers, in customer-dedicated cloud instances that are hosted, separate and apart from the public instances of our MOVEit Cloud platform). We promptly took down MOVEit Cloud for further investigation and notified all then-known current and former MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud customers in order to apprise them of the MOVEit Vulnerability and alert them to immediate remedial actions. In parallel, our team developed a patch for all supported versions of MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud, which was released on May 31, 2023, and allowed for the restoration of MOVEit Cloud that same day. 
MOVEit Transfer is a secure file-transfer software that is installed by customers on-premise and does not have any on-going telemetry after installation that allows us to track, among other things, a customer’s product usage, deployed version, file transfer activity (including any data that is transferred by or stored within the customer’s MOVEit Transfer instance), or whether the customer has applied any security patches or bug fixes to their MOVEit Transfer instance. However, certain MOVEit Transfer customers have reported that malicious threat actors have exploited the MOVEit Vulnerability to obtain access to their environments and portions of their sensitive customer data. 
Furthermore, we currently have not seen any evidence that sensitive customer data has been exfiltrated from the public MOVEit Cloud instances. For a small group of customers, we provide dedicated MOVEit Cloud instances that are hosted, for each such customer, separate and apart from the public instances of our MOVEit Cloud platform. Two of our dedicated MOVEit Cloud customers have reported that malicious threat actors have exploited the MOVEit Vulnerability to obtain access to their dedicated MOVEit Cloud environment. As of the date of the filing of this report on Form 10-Q, one such customer has confirmed that no sensitive data was compromised and the other has reported that certain personally identifiable information was exfiltrated. 
Since our disclosures regarding the MOVEit Vulnerability, various third-parties have been actively scrutinizing MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud, leading to the discovery and our prompt patching of additional vulnerabilities. We are currently not aware of any evidence that these additional vulnerabilities were exploited by malicious threat actors prior to creating patches to address them and making those patches available to our MOVEit Transfer customers and applying those patches to the MOVEit Cloud environments – both the public and dedicated cloud instances.
Progress has remained fully operational at all times before and after the discovery of the MOVEit Vulnerability and, as of the time of the filing of this report on Form 10-Q, has not uncovered evidence of unauthorized activity in Progress' corporate environment or impact to products beyond MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud related to this attack. MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud represented less than 4% in aggregate of the Company’s revenue for the nine months ended August 31, 2023.
Progress engaged outside cybersecurity experts and other incident response professionals to conduct a forensic investigation and assess the extent and scope of the MOVEit Vulnerability. The Company (i) has and is continuing to implement a series of additional security and related measures aimed at addressing the MOVEit Vulnerability and subsequently discovered vulnerabilities and further strengthening the overall security of our MOVEit applications, (ii) has engaged outside legal counsel to conduct a thorough independent investigation of the MOVEit Vulnerability, and (iii) has engaged with federal law enforcement and other federal agencies with respect to the MOVEit Vulnerability. As our fact-gathering investigation and litigation response continues, we will continue to assess the potential impact of the MOVEit Vulnerability on our business, operations, and financial results.
Expenses Incurred and Amounts Accrued 
For the three and nine months ended August 31, 2023, we incurred $1.0 million of costs related to the MOVEit Vulnerability. Costs are provided net of received and expected insurance recoveries of approximately $1.9 million, which was recognized during the third quarter of fiscal year 2023. The timing of recognizing insurance recoveries may differ from the timing of recognizing the associated expenses. 
Future Costs
We expect to incur investigation, legal and professional services expenses associated with the MOVEit Vulnerability in future periods. We will recognize these expenses as services are received, net of received and expected insurance recoveries. Our financial liability arising from any of the foregoing will depend on many factors, including limitations contained within our customer contracts, the amount of private litigation, and the number and extent of formal government investigations into the matter, therefore it is not possible at this time to estimate the quantitative impact of any such liability with any reasonable degree of certainty.
33
Insurance Coverage
During the period when the November 2022 cyber incident and the MOVEit Vulnerability occurred, we maintained $15.0 million of cybersecurity insurance coverage, which is expected to reduce our exposure to expenses and liabilities arising from these events. As of August 31, 2023, we have recorded approximately $4.9 million in insurance recoveries, of which, $3.0 million was related to the November 2022 cyber incident and $1.9 million was related to the MOVEit Vulnerability, providing us with $10.1 million of additional cybersecurity insurance coverage (which is subject to a $0.5 million retention per claim). We will pursue recoveries to the maximum extent available under our insurance policies.
Future Capital Investments
In addition, we may accelerate or make additional investments in our information technology systems, but we are unable to estimate such investments because the nature and scope has not yet been determined. We currently do not expect such amounts to be material to any fiscal period.
Effect on Sales and Customer Loyalty
The MOVEit Vulnerability may adversely affect our future performance and financial results. Customer confidence in Progress may also be impacted by the MOVEit Vulnerability. Through our response speed and transparent communications, we are committed to, and actively engaged in, activities to restore any loss in customer confidence. However, we currently cannot predict the length or extent of any ongoing impact to sales.
Litigation and Governmental Investigations
As of the date of the filing of this report on Form 10-Q, (i) we have received formal letters from 23 customers and others that claim to have been impacted by the MOVEit Vulnerability, some of which have indicated that they intend to seek indemnification from us related to the MOVEit Vulnerability, (ii) we have received a letter from an insurer providing notice of a subrogation claim (where the insurer is seeking recovery for all expenses incurred in connection with the MOVEit Vulnerability), and (iii) we are party to 58 class action lawsuits filed by individuals who claim to have been impacted by exfiltration of data from the environments of our MOVEit Transfer customers (on October 4, 2023, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation issued an order consolidating litigation relating to the MOVEit Vulnerability where we are a party in the United States District Court, District of Massachusetts). 
We have also been cooperating with several inquiries from domestic and foreign data privacy regulators, inquiries from several state attorneys general, as well as formal investigations from: (i) a U.S. federal law enforcement agency (as of the date of the filing of this report, the law enforcement investigation that we are cooperating with is not an enforcement action or formal governmental investigation of which we have been told that we are a target), and (ii) the SEC (as further described hereafter). On October 2, 2023, Progress received a subpoena from the SEC seeking various documents and information relating to the MOVEit Vulnerability. As described in the cover letter accompanying the subpoena, at this stage, the SEC investigation is a fact-finding inquiry, the investigation does not mean that Progress or anyone else has violated federal securities laws, and the investigation does not mean that the SEC has a negative opinion of any person, entity, or security. Progress intends to cooperate fully with the SEC in its investigation.

If our products contain software defects or security flaws, it could harm our revenues by causing us to lose customers and could increase our liabilities by exposing us to costly governmental investigations or litigation. For example, the exploitation of the zero-day MOVEit Vulnerability in May 2023 has resulted in government inquiries, two formal government investigations, and private litigation. Our products, despite extensive testing and quality control, may, and at times do, contain defects, vulnerabilities or security flaws. In the ordinary course of business, we may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects, vulnerabilities, or security flaws. Depending upon the severity of any such matters, the detection and correction of such matters can be time consuming and costly. If any such issues are exploited by malicious threat actors, we could experience, among other things, material adverse impact to our revenues due to loss of customers and increased liabilities due to costly governmental investigations or litigation. In addition, any such matters could affect the ability of our products to work with hardware or other software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products (due to a reallocation of our internal resources), and/or adversely affect market acceptance of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. For example, we recently released patches for vulnerabilities affecting WS_FTP, one of our file-transfer products that is deployed on-premise in our customers’ environments. Notwithstanding our efforts to promptly patch such vulnerabilities and encourage customers to deploy the patch as quickly as possible, we do not have telemetry into our WS_FTP customers’ environments or control over their patching activity, and there have been reports of exploitation of these vulnerabilities following the release of our security patches. We continue to monitor the situation and assess the potential impact of the WS_FTP vulnerabilities on our business, operations, and financial results. As of August 31, 2023, WS_FTP accounted for less than 1% of our annual gross revenue. 

Such claims and investigations may have an adverse effect on how we operate our business and our results of operations, and in the future, we may be subject to additional governmental or regulatory investigations, as well as additional litigation or indemnification claims. Following the discovery of the MOVEit Vulnerability and the various remedial actions described here, we have discovered and patched additional vulnerabilities within the MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud platforms. While we are currently not aware of any evidence that these additional vulnerabilities were exploited by malicious threat actors, we cannot guarantee that we have or will uncover and/or address all vulnerabilities within the MOVEit platform or any of our other products prior to exploitation by threat actors.
