# Progress Software Corp., Form 10-K for fiscal year ended 2023-11-30, filed 2024-01-26 (EDGAR 0000876167-24-000031). Fetched 2026-09-02. Verbatim excerpts (risk factor; Note 19 Cyber Related Matters; MD&A).

If our products contain software defects or security flaws, it could harm our revenues by causing us to lose customers and could increase our liabilities by exposing us to costly governmental investigations or litigation. For example, the exploitation of the zero-day MOVEit Vulnerability in May 2023 has resulted in informal government inquiries, three formal government investigations, and private litigation. Our products, despite extensive testing and quality control, may, and at times do, contain defects, vulnerabilities or security flaws. In the ordinary course of business, we may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects, vulnerabilities, or security flaws. Depending upon the severity of any such matters, the detection and correction of such matters can be time consuming and costly. If any such issues are exploited by malicious threat actors, we could experience, among other things, material adverse impact to our revenues due to loss of customers and increased liabilities due to costly governmental investigations or litigation. In addition, any such matters could affect the ability of our products to work with hardware or other software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products (due to a reallocation of our internal resources), and/or adversely affect market acceptance of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. For example, during the third quarter of 2023, we released patches for vulnerabilities affecting WS_FTP, one of our file-transfer products that is deployed on-premise in our customers’ environments. Notwithstanding our efforts to promptly patch such vulnerabilities and encourage customers to deploy the patch as quickly as possible, we do not have telemetry into our WS_FTP customers’ environments or control over their patching activity, and there have been reports of exploitation of these vulnerabilities following the release of our security patches.

As of the date of the filing of this report on Form 10-K, (i) we have received formal letters from 31 customers and others that claim to have been impacted by the MOVEit Vulnerability, some of which have indicated that they intend to seek indemnification from us related to the MOVEit Vulnerability, (ii) we have received a letter from an insurer providing notice of a subrogation claim (where the insurer is seeking recovery for all expenses incurred in connection with the MOVEit Vulnerability), which has resulted in the filing of a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts ("District of Massachusetts"), and (iii) we are party to approximately 118 class action lawsuits filed by individuals who claim to have been impacted by exfiltration of data from the environments of our MOVEit Transfer customers, which the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred to the District of Massachusetts for coordinated and consolidated proceedings.

We have also been cooperating with several inquiries from domestic and foreign data privacy regulators; inquiries from several state attorneys general; as well as formal investigations from: (i) a U.S. federal law enforcement agency (as of the date of the filing of this report, the law enforcement investigation that we are cooperating with is not an enforcement action or formal governmental investigation of which we have been told that we are a target), (ii) the SEC (as further described hereafter), and (iii) the Office of the Attorney General for the District of Columbia (as further described hereafter). On October 2, 2023, Progress received a subpoena from the SEC seeking various documents and information relating to the MOVEit Vulnerability. As described in the cover letter accompanying the subpoena, at this stage, the SEC investigation is a fact-finding inquiry, the investigation does not mean that Progress or anyone else has violated federal securities laws, and the investigation does not mean that the SEC has a negative opinion of any person, entity, or security. Progress intends to cooperate fully with the SEC in its investigation.

Expenses include costs to investigate and remediate the November 2022 Cyber Incident and MOVEit Vulnerability, as well as legal and other professional services related thereto. Expenses related to such cyber matters are provided net of insurance recoveries, although the timing of recognizing insurance recoveries may differ from the timing of recognizing the associated expenses. Costs associated with the enhancement of our cybersecurity program are not included within this adjustment. We incurred expenses of $1.5 million, net of approximately $3.7 million of insurance recoveries, and $4.7 million, net of insurance recoveries of $2.5 million, during fiscal year 2023 related to the MOVEit Vulnerability and the November 2022 Cyber Incident, respectively. During fiscal year 2022, we incurred expenses of $0.6 million related to the November 2022 Cyber Incident. See Note 19: Cyber Related Matters for further discussion.

For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2023, we incurred $1.5 million of costs related to the MOVEit Vulnerability. The costs recognized are net of received and expected insurance recoveries of approximately $3.7 million. The timing of recognizing insurance recoveries may differ from the timing of recognizing the associated expenses. We expect to incur investigation, legal and professional services expenses associated with the MOVEit Vulnerability in future periods. We will recognize these expenses as services are received, net of insurance recoveries. While a loss from these matters is reasonably possible, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of possible losses at this time, particularly while the foregoing matters remain ongoing. Furthermore, with respect to the litigation, the proceedings remain in the early stages, alleged damages have not been specified, there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class or classes being certified or the ultimate size of any class if certified, and there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved. Also, each of the governmental inquiries and investigations mentioned above could result in adverse judgements, settlements, fines, penalties, or other resolutions, the amount, scope and timing of which could be material, but which we are currently unable to predict. Therefore, we have not recorded a loss contingency liability for the MOVEit Vulnerability as of November 30, 2023.
