Vagrant Cascadian, 'Reproducible Builds for recent Debian security updates', rb-general, 30 Mar 2024, with Salvatore Bonaccorso's reply. URLs: https://lists.reproducible-builds.org/pipermail/rb-general/2024-March/003321.html and .../003323.html  Fetched 2026-09-01.

    Reproducible Builds for recent Debian security updates
   Reproducible Builds for recent Debian security updates
    Vagrant Cascadian 
    vagrant at reproducible-builds.org
    Sat Mar 30 02:38:35 UTC 2024
        Previous message (by thread): The upstream xz repository and the xz tarballs have been backdoored
        Next message (by thread): Reproducible Builds for recent Debian security updates
           
                                                        Philipp Kern asked about trying to do reproducible builds checks for
recent security updates to try to gain confidence about Debian's buildd
infrastructure, given that they run builds in sid chroots which may have
used or built or run a vulnerable xz-utils...
So far, I have not found any reproducibility issues; everything I tested
I was able to get to build bit-for-bit identical with what is in the
Debian archive.
I only tested bookworm security updates (not bullseye), and I tested the
xz-utils update now present in unstable, which took a little trial and
error to find the right snapshot! The build dependencies for Debian
bookworm (a.k.a. stable) were *much* easier to satisfy, as it is not a
moving target!
Debian bookworm security updates verified:
  cacti iwd libuv1 pdns-recursor samba composer fontforge knot-resolver
  php-dompdf-svg-lib squid yard
Not yet finished building:
  openvswitch
Did not yet try some time and disk-intensive builds:
  chromium firefox-esr thunderbird
Debian unstable updates verified:
  xz-utils
A tarball of build logs (including some failed builds) and .buildinfo
files is available at:
  https://people.debian.org/~vagrant/debian-security-rebuilds.tar.zst
Some caveats:
Notably, xz-utils has a build dependency that pulls in xz-utils, and the
version used may have been a vulnerable version (partly vulnerable?),
5.6.0-0.2.
The machine where I ran the builds had done some builds using packages
from sid over the last couple months, so may have at some point run the
vulnerable xz-utils code, so is not absolutely cleanest of
checks... but is at least some sort of data point.
The build environment used tarballs that had usrmerge applied (as it is
harder to not apply usrmerge these days), while the buildd
infrastructure chroots do not have usrmerge applied. But this did not
appear to cause significant problems, although pulled in a few more perl
dependencies!
I used sbuild with the --chroot-mode=unshare mode. For the xz-utils
build I used some of the ideas developed in an earlier verification
builds experiment:
  https://salsa.debian.org/reproducible-builds/debian-verification-build-experiment/-/blob/e003ddf19de13db2d512c25417e4bec863c3a082/sbuild-wrap#L71
Was great to try and apply Reproducible Builds to real-world uses!
live well,
  vagrant
	Previous message (by thread): The upstream xz repository and the xz tarballs have been backdoored
	Next message (by thread): Reproducible Builds for recent Debian security updates
           
                                                        

=== 003323 (Vagrant Cascadian, 30 Mar 2024, reply) ===
It is such an obvious application for Reproducible Builds that many
people have worked on for many years. So... I daresay, my pleasure and
honor. :)
