kpcyrd, 'New supply-chain security tool: backseat-signed', rb-general, 3 Apr 2024. URL: https://lists.reproducible-builds.org/pipermail/rb-general/2024-April/003337.html  Fetched 2026-09-01. Also cited: kpcyrd, 'The upstream xz repository and the xz tarballs have been backdoored', 29 Mar 2024, .../2024-March/003316.html (body is the openwall link and 'Exciting times').

    New supply-chain security tool: backseat-signed
   New supply-chain security tool: backseat-signed
    kpcyrd 
    kpcyrd at archlinux.org
    Wed Apr  3 00:31:11 UTC 2024
        Previous message (by thread): Arch Linux minimal container userland 100% reproducible - now what?
        Next message (by thread): New supply-chain security tool: backseat-signed
           
                                                        Hello,
I'm going to keep this short, I've been writing a lot of text recently 
(which is quite exhausting, on top of my dayjob and all the code I wrote 
today afterwards. Apologies if you're still waiting for a reply in one 
of the other threads).
I figured out a somewhat straight-forward way to check if a given `git 
archive` output is cryptographically claimed to be the source input of a 
given binary package in either Arch Linux or Debian (or both).
I believe this to be the "reproducible source tarball" thing some people 
have been asking about. As explained in the README, I believe 
reproducing autotools-generated tarballs isn't worth everybody's time 
and instead a distribution that claims to build from source should 
operate on VCS snapshots instead of tarballs with 25k lines of 
pre-generated shell-script. Building from VCS snapshots is already the 
case  for a large number of Arch Linux packages (through auto-generated 
Github tarballs). Some packages have been actively converted to VCS 
snapshots by Arch Linux staff in response to the xz incident.
This tool highlights the concept of "canonical sources", which is 
supposed to give guidance on what to code review. This is also why I 
think code signing by upstream is somewhat low priority, since the big 
distros can form consensus around "what's the source code" regardless.
https://github.com/kpcyrd/backseat-signed
The README shows how to verify Arch Linux and Debian build cmatrix from 
the same source code - they may both still apply patches (which would be 
considered part of the build instructions), but the specified source 
input is the same. This tarball can also be bit-for-bit reproduced from 
VCS by taking a `git archive` snapshot of the v2.0 tag in the cmatrix 
repository.
(If somebody ever tells you programming in Rust is slower, I wrote the 
entirety of this codebase within a few hours of a single day)
Let me know what you think. 🖤
Happy feet,
kpcyrd
	Previous message (by thread): Arch Linux minimal container userland 100% reproducible - now what?
	Next message (by thread): New supply-chain security tool: backseat-signed
