House Homeland Security Committee hearing, 'Cyber Threats in the Pipeline: Using Lessons from the Colonial Ransomware Attack to Defend Critical Infrastructure', 9 June 2021 (CHRG-117hhrg45085)
Source: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-117hhrg45085/html/CHRG-117hhrg45085.htm
Fetched: 2026-09-02 (curl, govinfo HTML; PDF also fetched)
Excerpt of the passages read for the chapter-07 pitches; line/page refs are to the fetched text.

--- transcript lines 134,142 (Chairman Thompson, opening) ---
For nearly a week, 5,500 miles of pipeline supplying 45 percent 
of the fuel on the East Coast was shut down, and panic buying 
resulted in fuel shortages in the Southeast. Since pipeline 
service was restored, we have learned more about what happened. 
We know hackers exploited an unprotected VPN account that was 
no longer in use to gain access to Colonial Pipeline's network. 
We know Colonial Pipeline paid the ransom demand and the FBI 
has since recovered most of it. We know Colonial Pipeline is 
hardly alone.

--- transcript lines 984,998 (Blount, prepared statement) ---
to access. That investigation is on-going, and while we may not have 
all of the answers today to the questions that you have, we are working 
hard to get them.
 Although the investigation is on-going, we believe the attacker 
exploited a legacy virtual private network (VPN) profile that was not 
intended to be in use. We are still trying to determine how the 
attackers gained the needed credentials to exploit it.
 We have worked with our third-party experts to resolve and 
remediate this issue; we have shut down the legacy VPN profile, and we 
have implemented additional layers of protection across our enterprise. 
We also recently engaged Dragos' Rob Lee, one of the world's leading 
industrial and critical infrastructure and OT security specialists to 
work alongside Mandiant and assist with the strengthening of our other 
cyber defenses. We have also retained John Strand from Black Hills 
Information Security, another leader in the cybersecurity space, who 

--- transcript lines 1192,1215 (Carmakal, prepared statement: the intrusion) ---
them become more resilient to future attacks.
 the cyber intrusion into colonial pipeline
 On the early morning of May 7, 2021, Mandiant was engaged by Hunton 
Andrews Kurth LLP, on behalf of Colonial Pipeline, to help respond to 
the ransomware event that was discovered earlier that day. Prior to 
that date, Mandiant had not provided cybersecurity consulting services 
to Colonial Pipeline. Shortly after being called on the morning of May 
7, we mobilized a team of experienced incident responders and 
information technology and operational technology security experts to 
help Colonial Pipeline investigate and contain the incident, eradicate 
the threat actor, and further enhance the security posture of the 
network to facilitate the safe restart of the pipeline. Additionally, 
Mandiant is advising Colonial Pipeline on ways to become more resilient 
to cyber attacks in the future.
 The earliest evidence of compromise that we have identified to date 
occurred on April 29, 2021. On that date, the threat actor had logged 
into a virtual private network (VPN) appliance using a legacy VPN 
profile and an employee's username and password. The legacy VPN profile 
did not require a one-time passcode to be provided. The legacy VPN 
profile has since been disabled as part of Colonial Pipeline's 
remediation process.
 the evolution of disruptive intrusions: ransomware to multifaceted 
 extortion
 Cyber intrusions have become increasingly disruptive over the past 

--- transcript lines 1276,1296 (Carmakal, prepared statement: DarkSide RaaS) ---
profit is shared between its owners and partners, or affiliates, who 
provide access to organizations, steal sensitive victim data, and 
deploy the ransomware encryptors. Mandiant currently tracks multiple 
threat groups that have conducted these intrusions, some of whom have 
also worked on behalf of ransomware services besides DarkSide. These 
groups demonstrate varying levels of technical sophistication 
throughout intrusions.
 Mandiant has identified multiple DarkSide victims through our 
incident response engagements and from reports on the DarkSide victim-
shaming website. Most of the victim organizations were based in the 
United States and span across multiple sectors, including financial 
services, legal, manufacturing, professional services, retail, and 
technology.
 Following the security incident at Colonial Pipeline and the FBI's 
public attribution to DarkSide, Mandiant has observed multiple actors 
cite a May 13, 2021 announcement that appeared to be shared with 
DarkSide RaaS affiliates by the operators of the service. This 
announcement stated that they lost access to their infrastructure, 
including their blog, payment, and content distribution network (CDN) 
servers, and would be closing their service. The post cited law 
enforcement pressure and pressure from the United States for this 

--- transcript lines 1420,1452 (Thompson/Carmakal on the legacy VPN profile) ---
having been in the system over the course of those days.
 Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much. Mr. Carmakal, just 
2 quick questions. Would an open VPN system with a normal 
security or IT security system have been picked up?
 Mr. Carmakal. Yes, so, let me just provide a little bit of 
context into what is now believed to be the earliest evidence 
of compromise. As we conduct investigations, we try to figure 
out what is the earliest evidence of what the attacker has done 
within the environment. Based on our investigation, the 
earliest evidence was a login to the Colonial Pipeline VPN. We 
do know that an employee's credentials were used. So, a 
username and a password was used to do that. We did not figure 
out exactly how the attacker was able to get access to the 
username, but it is a possibility that the attacker was able to 
leverage credentials that the employee may have used on another 
website that was compromised prior to this date. So, it is 
certainly possible that that is how the attacker got in. 
Whether or not the vulnerability or the misconfiguration--and 
let me, you know, clarify it as a misconfiguration--whether it 
would have been picked up by a vulnerability assessment is hard 
to tell. But I just want to clarify that what actually occurred 
was there was a legacy VPN profile that was in place that 
wasn't believed to be active, and that enabled an attacker to 
leverage both the user and the password to login.
 Chairman Thompson. So, how would one correct that problem?
 Mr. Carmakal. Yes, so, the problem has been corrected at 
this point in time. The legacy VPN profile has been completely 
removed. So, a user, whether an attacker or an employee, would 
not be able to attempt to login to the system without requiring 
multifactor authentication. So, in addition to a password, you 
would need a one-time code in order to be able to login to the 
Colonial Pipeline VPN at this point in time.
 Chairman Thompson. All right. Do, you just said it was a 

--- transcript lines 1668,1712 (Jackson Lee/Carmakal on MFA and the password) ---
 Ms. Jackson Lee. Thank you very much. Let me, again, 
compliment the FBI for being able to secure dollars. This may 
be your question, I think, Mr. Carmakal. Why wasn't a 
multifactor authentication used on that VPN? I am going to give 
you a series of questions, if you want to take quick notes, 
because my time is running out. Who had a legitimate access to 
that password? Where else was the password used? Was the 
password listed in any of the company's on-line documentation?
 So, it is authentication, legitimate access to that 
password. So, do you want to start with the authentication?
 Mr. Carmakal. Sure.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. If you can be concise and as quickly as 
possible.
 Mr. Carmakal. Yes, thanks, ma'am. In terms of multifactor 
authentication, it was not required for the specific VPN 
profile that was used for this specific account. It is because 
the account and the VPN profile wasn't believed to actually be 
enabled.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. OK. Can I move to----
 Mr. Carmakal. So, it was known at the time. Yes?
 Ms. Jackson Lee. Can I move to the next question?
 Mr. Carmakal. Yes, ma'am.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. Who had a legitimate access to the 
password, sir?
 Mr. Carmakal. One person, as far as we know.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. Is that person vetted, from your 
perspective?
 Mr. Carmakal. Yes, it was an employee's account.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. Where else was the password used?
 Mr. Carmakal. We do not know the exact source of the 
website that it was used, but presumably it was used on at 
least one other website because there are passwords that are 
readily available on the internet, and we did find that it was 
one of the passwords that was stolen from another website. But 
we don't know exactly where it came from.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. Was the password listed in any of the 
company's on-line documentation?
 Mr. Carmakal. Not that I am aware of.
 Ms. Jackson Lee. You started out by saying you can't go it 
alone. We are ready to help you. I introduced H.R. 2980, which 
deals with Cybersecurity Vulnerability Mediation Act. The 
committee was kind enough to pass it out of the committee. 
Hopefully, it will go to the floor.
 But the crux of this is that part of it is a reporting 
feature that really requires companies to the DHS to secure a 

