Lang, Czeskis, Balfanz, Schilder, Srinivas (Google), 'Security Keys: Practical Cryptographic Second Factors for the Modern Web', FC 2016 (preproceedings)
Source: https://fc16.ifca.ai/preproceedings/25_Lang.pdf
Fetched: 2026-09-02 (curl)
Excerpt of the passages read for the chapter-07 pitches; line/page refs are to the fetched text.

 Security Keys: Practical Cryptographic Second
          Factors for the Modern Web

    Juan Lang, Alexei Czeskis, Dirk Balfanz, Marius Schilder, and Sampath
                                   Srinivas

                      Google, Inc., Mountain View, CA, USA



      Abstract. “Security Keys” are second-factor devices that protect users
      against phishing and man-in-the-middle attacks. Users carry a single de-
      vice and can self-register it with any online service that supports the
      protocol. The devices are simple to implement and deploy, simple to
      use, privacy preserving, and secure against strong attackers. We have
      shipped support for Security Keys in the Chrome web browser and
      in Google’s online services. We show that Security Keys lead to both
      an increased level of security and user satisfaction by analyzing a two
      year deployment which began within Google and has extended to our
      consumer-facing web applications. The Security Key design has been
      standardized by the FIDO Alliance, an organization with more than
      250 member companies spanning the industry. Currently, Security Keys
      have been deployed by Google, Dropbox, and GitHub. An updated and
      extended tech report is available at https://github.com/google/u2f-
      ref-code/docs/SecurityKeys_TechReport.pdf.


1    Introduction

Recent account takeovers [1–3] have once again highlighted the challenge of
securing user data online: accounts are often protected by no more than a
weak password [4] and whatever implicit signals (if any) that the online service
provider has collected to distinguish legitimate users from account hijackers.
    Academic research has produced numerous proposals to move away from
passwords, but in practice such efforts have largely been unsuccessful [5, 6]. In-
stead, many service providers augment password-based authentication with a
second factor in the form of a one-time passcode (OTP), e.g., [7, 8]. Unfortu-
nately, OTPs as a second factor are still vulnerable to relatively common attacks
such as phishing [9]. In addition, OTPs have a number of usability drawbacks
(see Section 2). These factors limit the success and deployment of OTPs as a
reliable and secure second factor.
    Meanwhile, secure authentication factors, which use challenge/response-based
cryptographic protocols, have their own barriers to deployment. National ID
cards [10, 11] and smart cards require custom reader hardware and/or driver
software to be installed prior to use. Depending on the implementation, these
systems also make it challenging for users to protect their privacy (see Section 2).
    In this work, we present Security Keys: second factor devices that improve
the state of the art for practical authentication for real consumers in terms of
privacy, security, and usability. This is evidenced by the fact that Security Keys
have been publicly deployed by Google [12], Dropbox [13], and GitHub [14]. Secu-
rity Keys were designed from the ground up to be practical: simple to implement
and deploy, straightforward to use, privacy preserving, and secure against strong
attackers. We have shipped support for Security Keys in the Chrome browser,
have deployed it within Google’s internal sign-in system, and have enabled Se-
curity Keys as an available second factor in Google’s web services. In this work,
we demonstrate that Security Keys lead to both an increased level of security and
user satisfaction as well as cheaper support cost. The Security Key design has
been standardized within an industry alliance, the FIDO Alliance [15] as the
Universal Second Factor (U2F) protocol.

