Senate HSGAC hearing, 'Threats to Critical Infrastructure: Examining the Colonial Pipeline Cyber Attack', 8 June 2021, S. Hrg. 117-429 (CHRG-117shrg46569)
Source: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-117shrg46569/html/CHRG-117shrg46569.htm
Fetched: 2026-09-02 (curl, govinfo HTML; PDF also fetched)
Excerpt of the passages read for the chapter-07 pitches; line/page refs are to the fetched text.

--- transcript lines 228,246 (Chairman Peters, opening) ---
the House of Representatives, uses was hit with a ransomware 
attack. As I have said before, no one is safe from these 
attacks, including us.
 I hope that we will cover four specific areas here today. 
One is we have to understand that these attacks have real-world 
consequences. On May 7th, Colonial Pipeline learned they 
suffered a ransomware attack impacting their information 
technology (IT), systems by this Russian-based criminal group 
called ``DarkSide.'' Recent news reports indicate that hackers 
accessed the Colonial system through a compromised password of 
a virtual private network (VPN) account. This account did not 
use multifactor authentication (MAF), which is a very basic 
cybersecurity best practice. We will talk more about that and 
why they did not. This easily allowed the hackers to gain 
access.
 Colonial moved quickly to disconnect their operational 
system to prevent hackers from moving laterally and accessing 
those systems. That, of course, although an appropriate 
response to a cyber attack made Colonial's critical pipelines 

--- transcript lines 264,274 (Ranking Member Portman, opening) ---
terms of this incident.
 However, organizations obviously have to weigh these 
consequences against keeping the operations offline, in this 
case limiting 45 percent of the East Coast fuel supply. 
Colonial Pipeline paid DarkSide a ransom, we are told, of 75 
bitcoins worth over $4 million at the time. Yesterday the good 
news is the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced the recovery 
of 63.7 of those bitcoins, but DOJ will not be able to recover 
those ransom payments in other cases. We will talk more about 
that and how they did it and what that means.
 I appreciate Mr. Blount's transparency in acknowledging 

--- transcript lines 364,376 (Blount, oral statement) ---
we take very seriously, and we always operate with the 
interests of our customers, shippers, and country first in 
mind.
 Just 1 month ago, we were the victims of a ransomware 
attack by a cyber criminal group, and that attack encrypted our 
IT systems. Although the investigation is still ongoing, we 
believe the attacker exploited the legacy VPN profile that was 
not intended to be in use.
 DarkSide demanded a financial payment in exchange for a key 
to unlock the impacted systems. We had cyber defenses in place, 
but the unfortunate reality is that those defenses were 
compromised.
 The attack forced us to make difficult choices in real time 

--- transcript lines 534,546 (Peters/Blount on the ransom) ---
 Chairman Peters. That is all very encouraging to hear, and 
for the record, I am working on legislation right now to make 
sure that information is indeed being shared with CISA to get a 
better understanding of what is happening in ransomware, not 
just with your company but across the board.
 Reporting indicates and you have affirmed today that you 
made the decision to pay the ransom of $4.4 million. We are 
certainly happy to see that a portion of that is being 
recovered by the Department of Justice now. My question to you, 
though, is: Prior to making the decision to pay the ransom, had 
you consulted with anyone in the Federal Government on whether 
that would be an appropriate response?
 Mr. Blount. Thank you for that question, Mr. Chairman. It 

--- transcript lines 674,700 (Portman/Blount on MFA and the legacy VPN) ---
 Mr. Blount. Ranking Member Portman, yes, sir, that is 
correct.
 Senator Portman. OK. There are also news reports about how 
this happened. As I said in my opening statement, there was a 
compromised password of a virtual private network account. This 
account apparently did not use multifactor authentication, 
which, again, is kind of a basic cybersecurity hygiene item 
that, companies should have in place, making it harder for 
people to gain access. Prior to the attack, did your company 
require all employees to use multifactor authentication?
 Mr. Blount. Ranking Member Portman, in the case of this 
particular legacy VPN, it did only have single-factor 
authentication. It was a complicated password, so I want to be 
clear on that. It was not a ``Colonial 123'' type password. The 
investigation is ongoing by Mandiant to try to determine how 
that material was compromised. But in our normal operation, we 
use an RSA token allowance in order to create authentication 
difficulties for remote access.
 Senator Portman. Would your advice going forward be that 
multifactor authentication ought to be used?
 Mr. Blount. Ranking Member Portman, that is absolutely the 
correct advice.
 Senator Portman. The Transportation Security Administration 
(TSA) has given the industry a lot of leeway. Critical 
infrastructure and voluntary compliance has been the approach. 
They came out late last month, after your attack, with some new 
directives, and now there is a mandate that reporting cyber 

--- transcript lines 1118,1140 (Hassan/Blount on the legacy VPN and pen testing) ---
derived around keeping safe and protecting the asset because of 
what its main benefit is to the United States.
 Senator Hassan. OK. I understand that, and I appreciate 
that answer. But, as you have had conversations with other 
Senators this morning, you have mentioned that you did not have 
two-step authentication in place. You have mentioned a legacy 
VPN which, in my understanding, means it was a pretty old VPN. 
I do not think it is acceptable to understand the critical 
nature of your product, but then not really have the 
preparation and the system in place to protect it as if it is 
critical infrastructure. You really do have an obligation to 
U.S. communities that you serve and to consumers and to our 
national security, so I am concerned that it does not seem to 
have been a formal factor in your analysis of how much to 
strengthen your systems.
 Mr. Blount. Senator, we take cybersecurity very seriously. 
I did reference earlier that the VPN was a legacy VPN----
 Senator Hassan. Yes.
 Mr. Blount [continuing]. That we could not see and it did 
not show up in any pen testing, that is unfortunate. But, 
again, the safety and the security of the system is highly 
critical. We have never had our board deny us any funds 
associated with safety and security, whether it is on the IT 

--- transcript lines 1508,1520 (Hawley/Blount on the TSA review) ---
their contacts on the TSA side. No one really understood why 
the word ``refused'' was used.
 Senator Hawley. So just let me understand your last 
statement. Are you saying you think that the TSA review would 
have been redundant, not particularly helpful? You said it is 
duplicative of things you do on your own end internally.
 Mr. Blount. Senator, I think in this case it probably would 
not have resulted in finding that legacy VPN. Again, they do 
not actually go into the system. It is a questionnaire format 
type thing. I am not saying it would not be valuable. It very 
much could be. I think each one of these tests are slightly 
different, so if there is that one little piece that can make 
the difference in seeing something, that is helpful. Again, 

--- transcript lines 1534,1560 (Hawley/Blount on cybersecurity spend) ---
owners, which actually exceeded your net income for that year. 
That is a pretty good return. What do you invest in 
cybersecurity every year?
 Mr. Blount. That is a great question, Senator. We invested 
over $200 million over the last five years in our IT systems.
 Senator Hawley. And that is cybersecurity? How about on an 
annual basis for cybersecurity? $670 million distributed in 
dividends in 2018 alone, give me a sense of--you are operating 
not unlike a public utility, right? I mean, we covered the fact 
you serve 45, 50 percent of customers on the East Coast; you 
transport 100 million gallons a day. The attack on you led to 
16,000 gas stations being shut down. So just give me a sense 
of--given the importance of your company, the size of it, the 
reliance, what are you doing in terms of your investment for 
cybersecurity? I know you are paying your investors well.
 Mr. Blount. Yes, Senator, great question. Our dividend 
policy is not much different than any other Midstream company, 
so I want to state that first. Our owners have never denied us 
any opportunity to spend what we need to spend in order to keep 
the pipeline safe and secure.
 Senator Hawley. Which is about what a year?
 Mr. Blount. Take the average, over $200 million in the last 
five years.
 Senator Hawley. OK, I tell you what----
 Mr. Blount. Over $1.5 billion in system integrity every 
five years.
 Senator Hawley. Got it. We will give you this as a question 

--- transcript lines 1692,1702 (Blount on sharing the Mandiant results) ---
Committee once it is completed?
 Mr. Blount. Senator, I do not think there are any issues 
with that. What we have been trying to do all along the way is 
share the information as we learn it. We have been very 
straightforward about the legacy VPN. Hopefully that will help 
out other operators who have similar type legacy assets.
 We know from working with Mandiant that is not an unusual 
issue for companies. I think we will continue to communicate as 
we go through the process with Mandiant, but our ability and 
desire to sit down with you is ready and available when you 
would like that.


--- Added 2026-09-03 at the claims-register stage: three passages the excerpt above cut short, taken from the govinfo hearing PDF (senate-hrg.pdf, pdftotext -layout; line numbers are to that text) ---

--- PDF text lines 514-526 (Peters/Blount: the $4.4 million and the decision to pay) ---
the decision to pay the ransom of $4.4 million. We are certainly
happy to see that a portion of that is being recovered by the De-
partment of Justice now. My question to you, though, is: Prior to
making the decision to pay the ransom, had you consulted with
anyone in the Federal Government on whether that would be an
appropriate response?
   Mr. BLOUNT. Thank you for that question, Mr. Chairman. It was
our understanding that the decision was solely ours as a private
company to make the decision about whether to pay or not to pay.
Considering the consequences of potentially not bringing the pipe-
line back on as quickly as I possibly could, I chose the option to
make the ransom payment in order to get all the tools necessary
and the optionality of those tools to bring the pipeline on as quick

--- PDF text lines 1423-1454 (Hawley/Blount: the TSA review Colonial had not yet taken up) ---
   I am curious as to, given this, given your market power, given
the reliance of consumers, given the sheer number of consumers
you serve, why didn't you take up the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration's offer to do a comprehensive cybersecurity review of
the pipeline?
   Mr. BLOUNT. Senator, thank you for asking that question. We in-
deed were in contact with them about setting that up. Obviously,
COVID got in the way in the early days of that. We were getting
ready to move at the end of the year into a new facility, so I think
the conversation was that we want to do it, the VADR program is
a good program, but we will schedule that later on. We do have
that scheduled at the end of July.
   Senator HAWLEY. So it was a COVID issue, basically? Or it was
a moving issue, you were moving to a new headquarters? I am
looking at the Washington Post article here that reports that the
TSA had tried to schedule a voluntary in-depth cybersecurity re-
view but that Colonial just could not get it done. Any regret not
doing that in retrospect?
   Mr. BLOUNT. Senator, anything that you could do is always help-
ful. If we look at that test, it is a great test, but it is not dissimilar
to a lot of the tests that we already do in our system. Again, we
have a good working relationship with TSA. I am a little surprised
by the statement that I heard about refusal, actually investigated
it on my end from my CIO and their contacts on the TSA side. No
one really understood why the word ``refused'' was used.
   Senator HAWLEY. So just let me understand your last statement.
Are you saying you think that the TSA review would have been re-
dundant, not particularly helpful? You said it is duplicative of
things you do on your own end internally.
   Mr. BLOUNT. Senator, I think in this case it probably would not
have resulted in finding that legacy VPN. Again, they do not actu-
ally go into the system. It is a questionnaire format type thing. I

--- PDF text lines 1615-1627 (Ossoff/Blount: sharing the Mandiant review) ---
   Senator OSSOFF. Thank you, Mr. Blount. As you and I discussed
last week, your team, I believe in collaboration with Mandiant, is
conducting a comprehensive review of the threat, the nature of the
attack, what might have been done to mitigate the risk, the efforts
to thwart the attack once it was discovered. Is that correct?
   Mr. BLOUNT. Yes, Senator, that is correct.
   Senator OSSOFF. What impediment would there be, if any, to
sharing the results of that review and the conclusions of that inves-
tigation, including at the technical level with this Committee once
it is completed?
   Mr. BLOUNT. Senator, I do not think there are any issues with
that. What we have been trying to do all along the way is share
the information as we learn it. We have been very straightforward
