TSA Security Directive Pipeline-2021-01E (May 2025 renewal of the 26 May 2021 directive)
Source: https://www.tsa.gov/sites/default/files/tsa-security-directive-pipeline-2021-01e-and-memo-508c.pdf
Fetched: 2026-09-02 (tsa.gov returned 403 to curl; text obtained through the r.jina.ai reader proxy)
Excerpt of the passages read for the chapter-07 pitches; line/page refs are to the fetched text.

SUBJECT  Enhancing Pipeline Cybersecurity 
EFFECTIVE DATE  May 3, 2025 
EXPIRATION DATE  May 2, 2026 
CANCELS AND SUPERSEDES  Security Directive Pipeline-2021-01D 
APPLICABILITY  Owners and operators of a hazardous liquid and natural gas 
pipeline or a liquefied natural gas facility notified by TSA 
that their pipeline system or facility is critical 
AUTHORITY  49 U.S.C. 114(d), (f), (l) and (m) 
LOCATION  All locations within the United States 
I.  PURPOSE AND GENERAL INFORMATION 
Due to the ongoing cybersecurity threat to pipeline systems and associated infrastructure, the 
Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is issuing this Security Directive. 1                                                                         
> 1TSA is issuing this Security Directive under the authority of 49 U.S.C. 114( l)(2)(A), which states:
> “Notwithstanding any other provision of law or executive order (including an executive order requiring acost-benefit analysis), if the Administrator determines that aregulation or Security Directive must be issued immediately
> in order to protect transportation security, the Administrator shall issue the regulation or Security Directive without
> providing notice or an opportunity for comment and without prior approval of the Secretary.”
All 
revisions to this Security Directive series from the previous version, Security Directive 
Pipeline-2021-01 D, are highlighted in bold. 
This Security Directive continues to require three critical actions. First, it requires TSA-specified Owner/Operators to report cybersecurity incidents to the Department of Homeland 
Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). Second, it requires 
Owner/Operators to designate a Cybersecurity Coordinator and alternate(s) sufficient to 
ensure either the primary or alternate Cybersecurity Coordinator is available to TSA and 
CISA at all times (24 hours per day, seven days per week) to coordinate cybersecurity 
practices and address any incidents that arise. Third, it requires Owner/Operators to review 
their current activities against TSA’s recommendations for pipeline cybersecurity to assess 2
cyber risks, identify any gaps, develop remediation measures, and report the results to TSA 
