Source: Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, PIPEDA Report of Findings 2014-015
URL: https://www.priv.gc.ca/en/opc-actions-and-decisions/investigations/investigations-into-businesses/2014/pipeda-2014-015/
Fetched: 2026-09-03
Excerpt: paragraphs 16-20 and 31-37

16. Concerning the complainant's allegation of inadequate safeguards, our Office, along
with the ODPCI, identified a number of concerns in the design and management of Adobe's
computer systems. Specifically, we were concerned by the following: password management,
outdated software, redundant systems containing personal information, insecure and
inadequate logging, retention of data for longer than necessary, and a failure to isolate
corporate computer systems from the engineering network.

17. As a specific example of concern to us, we noted that password management was greatly
hampered by the use of a deprecated encryption format and plain-text password hints.

Since the plain text hints sometimes contained the password itself (or a very obvious hint)
and the encryption format used by Adobe scrambled identical passwords in the same way, it
would be relatively easy to obtain access to several different accounts where the same
password was used by starting with the hint/password obtained from one account.

19. Adobe was very forthcoming to our Office in further describing the details of its
technological systems and operations, some of which had been inherited as a result of
absorbing other companies. Aspects of the inherited systems and operations appear to have
contributed to the security safeguard problems.

32. Our analysis of critical aspects of Adobe's systems and operational practices in place
at the time of the Data Breach concluded that the security safeguards were not appropriate
for protecting the personal information at issue.

36. That being said, we are satisfied with the measures that Adobe has taken since the
incident, and after exchanges with our Office and the ODPCI, to address the security
safeguards issues towards preventing any recurrence. Many of these measures are of a
commercially sensitive nature and thus cannot be mentioned in this report.

But we can note that these measures include: Adobe's enhancements to both its user-password
management process and its server authentication system, as well as the decommissioning of
the server affected by the Data Breach and a reduction in the retention period for customers'
payment data.
