Source: Data Protection Commissioner of Ireland, Annual Report 2014
URL: https://www.dataprotection.ie/sites/default/files/uploads/2018-11/Annual%20Report%202014.pdf
Fetched: 2026-09-03
Excerpt: Case Study 16, printed pp. 27-29

How the Breach Occurred

The attack was a sophisticated and sustained intrusion of Adobe's computer systems.
Attackers identified and removed data from a backup server that stored the compromised data
described above.

Passwords

At risk: the attacker posted some data that was exfiltrated on a website and included the
email address and encrypted password of certain Adobe users. A number of research articles
have demonstrated that some passwords have been deciphered by reference to password hints and
repeated passwords (i.e., the same password used by more than one user).

Hints: Parts of the data exfiltrated by the attacker were the password hints of a small
percentage of users. These hints were stored in clear text and associated with the username
(email address).

Storage: The Office queried why passwords were stored in one system in an encrypted manner
rather that hashed and salted. Encrypted passwords can be unencrypted, which would allow a
data controller to see the passwords of users, or attackers, if they gained access. Adobe
stated it was actually hashing and salting passwords within a new system for a number of
years prior to the discovery of the security breach, but decided to also keep the database
in the old system as a backup measure in case of issues with the new system. Passwords in
the old system's database had been encrypted.

Conclusion and Findings

Adobe's transitioning from the use of encrypted passwords in the old system to the use of
hashed and salted passwords in the new system could have been achieved more effectively and
expeditiously than was the case.

Adobe has since put in place substantial improvements in its security protocols, practices
and procedures, and this Office is satisfied that it now has appropriate procedures in place
to minimise the possibility of a similar security breach in the future.
