Source: https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity18/sec18-hassan_0.pdf
Fetched: 2026-09-03
Excerpt: proceedings pp. 507–510, §§7.1, 7.3, and 9 (selected passages)

7 Discussion & Mitigation

7.1 Strava’s Global Heat Map Incident.

The release of Strava’s Global Heatmap published aggregated public usage data for 27 million users. The motivation for publishing the heatmap was to help provide a resource for athletes to explore and discover new places to exercise; in addition, a related Strava Metro project leveraged this heatmap data to assist departments of transportation and city planning groups in improving infrastructure for bicyclists and pedestrians. However, as a result of the sparsity of background noise in some regions, the heatmap was observed to leak sensitive and classified information regarding the locations of military bases, covert black sites and patrol routes, to name a few.

Because many of the discovered facilities are highly secure, their identification in the heatmap may not pose an immediate threat to the safety of personnel. However, while the identities of specific athletes were not directly leaked in the heatmap, a related vulnerability allows an attacker to upload spoofed GPS data in order to discover the IDs of Athletes in a given area.

Our results point to a natural tension between the desire to publish route information while concealing sensitive endpoints; significant amounts of private information is leaked through inspecting the trajectory of the route. At the same time, this countermeasure significantly increases the complexity of breaking an EPZ, which may prove sufficient to dissuade attackers in practice.

9 Ethics and Disclosure

We have disclosed our findings to Strava, Garmin Connect, and Map My Tracks. As of the date of publication, all three companies have acknowledged the vulnerability and have incorporated one or more of our recommended countermeasures into their production systems. Strava has adopted a spatial cloaking function that is invoked upon the creation of every new user-specified EPZ, and provides the user with an option of re-randomizing the EPZ if they do not like its placement.

Through the insights gained in this study, we were able to develop and empirically demonstrate the efficacy of several novel privacy mechanisms that have been put into practice by major fitness tracking services.
