Source: https://owasp.org/Top10/2025/A06_2025-Insecure_Design/
Fetched: 2026-09-03 from repository authority snapshot
Excerpt: Description; Secure Design; How to prevent

Description.

Insecure design is a broad category representing different weaknesses, expressed as “missing or ineffective control design.” Insecure design is not the source for all other Top Ten risk categories. Note that there is a difference between insecure design and insecure implementation. We differentiate between design flaws and implementation defects for a reason, they have different root causes, take place at different times in the development process, and have different remediations. A secure design can still have implementation defects leading to vulnerabilities that may be exploited. An insecure design cannot be fixed by a perfect implementation as needed security controls were never created to defend against specific attacks. One of the factors that contributes to insecure design is the lack of business risk profiling inherent in the software or system being developed, and thus the failure to determine what level of security design is required.

Secure Design

Secure design is a culture and methodology that constantly evaluates threats and ensures that code is robustly designed and tested to prevent known attack methods. Threat modeling should be integrated into refinement sessions (or similar activities); look for changes in data flows and access control or other security controls. In the story development, determine the correct flow and failure states, ensure they are well understood and agreed upon by the responsible and impacted parties. Analyze assumptions and conditions for expected and failure flows to ensure they remain accurate and desirable. Determine how to validate the assumptions and enforce conditions needed for proper behaviors. Ensure the results are documented in the story. Learn from mistakes and offer positive incentives to promote improvements. Secure design is neither an add-on nor a tool that you can add to software.

How to prevent.

Establish and use a secure development lifecycle with AppSec professionals to help evaluate and design security and privacy-related controls

Establish and use a library of secure design patterns or paved-road components

Use threat modeling for critical parts of the application such as authentication, access control, business logic, and key flows

Use threat modeling as an educational tool to generate a security mindset

Integrate security language and controls into user stories

Integrate plausibility checks at each tier of your application (from frontend to backend)

Write unit and integration tests to validate that all critical flows are resistant to the threat model. Compile use-cases and misuse-cases for each tier of your application.

Segregate tier layers on the system and network layers, depending on the exposure and protection needs

Segregate tenants robustly by design throughout all tiers
