SOURCE: George Kurtz, 'July 19, 2024 Statement from George Kurtz, Founder and CEO, CrowdStrike', on CrowdStrike's 'Falcon Content Update Remediation and Guidance Hub',
https://www.crowdstrike.com/en-us/blog/statement-on-falcon-content-update-for-windows-hosts/ (redirects to the hub). Vendor statement. Fetched 2026-09-01.

Sent 2024-07-19 1930 UTC                

                    July 19, 2024 Statement from George Kurtz, Founder and CEO, CrowdStrike

Valued Customers and Partners,

I want to sincerely apologize directly to all of you for the outage. All of CrowdStrike understands the gravity and impact of the situation. We quickly identified the issue and deployed a fix, allowing us to focus diligently on restoring customer systems as our highest priority.

                            The outage was caused by a defect found in a Falcon content update for Windows hosts. Mac and Linux hosts are not impacted. This was not a cyberattack.

We are working closely with impacted customers and partners to ensure that all systems are restored, so you can deliver the services your customers rely on.

CrowdStrike is operating normally, and this issue does not affect our Falcon platform systems. There is no impact to any protection if the Falcon sensor is installed. Falcon Complete and Falcon OverWatch services are not disrupted.

We will provide continuous updates through our Support Portal.

We have mobilized all of CrowdStrike to help you and your teams. If you have questions or need additional support, please reach out to your CrowdStrike representative or Technical Support.

We know that adversaries and bad actors will try to exploit events like this. I encourage everyone to  ...


== Same hub, remediation guidance for Windows hosts (undated on the page; the 19 July 2024 instructions), excerpts on repeated crashes ==
ng at 04:09 UTC was identified and deprecated on operational systems. When deprecation occurs, a new file is deployed, but the old file can remain in the sensor’s directory.

Out of an abundance of caution, and to prevent Windows systems from further disruption, the impacted version of the channel file was added to Falcon’s known-bad list in the CrowdStrike Cloud.

No sensor updates, new channel files, or code was deployed from the CrowdStrike Cloud.

For operational machines, this is a hygiene action. For impacted systems with strong network connectivity, this action could also result in the automatic recovery of systems in a boot loop.

This was conf
[...]
w can be used.

                    Updated 2024-07-21 0932 UTC                

                    How do I Remediate Individual Hosts?

Reboot the host to give it an opportunity to download the reverted channel file. We strongly recommend putting the host on a wired network (as opposed to WiFi) prior to rebooting as the host will acquire internet connectivity considerably faster via ethernet.

If the host crashes again on reboot:

Updated 2024-07-22 1758 UTC

Option 1 – Build automated recovery ISOs with drivers

Follow the instructions for Building CrowdStrike Bootable Recovery Images in this manual (PDF) or log in to view in the support portal. Updated 2024-07-26 2105 UTC

Note: Bitlocker-encrypted hosts may require a recovery key.

Review the following video on CrowdStrike Host Remed
