SOURCE: David Weston (Microsoft VP, Enterprise and OS Security), 'Helping our customers through the CrowdStrike outage', Official Microsoft Blog, 20 July 2024,
https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2024/07/20/helping-our-customers-through-the-crowdstrike-outage/ (live page returned 403 to curl; text taken from the Wayback Machine copy, same URL, 2024). Vendor statement; source of the 8.5 million figure. Fetched 2026-09-01. Full post:

Helping our customers through the CrowdStrike outage - The Official Microsoft Blog

	Skip to content

        Skip to main content

                        Microsoft

                Official Microsoft Blog

                                Official Microsoft Blog

                            Official Microsoft Blog

                         Home 

                                Our Company

            About Microsoft

            Company Timeline

            Global Diversity & Inclusion

            Microsoft on the Issues

            Microsoft Stories

            Official Microsoft Blog

    Regional News Centers
    Regional News Centers

            Microsoft Asia

            Microsoft Europe

            Microsoft India

            Microsoft Latin America

            Microsoft Middle East & Africa

                                News and Stories

            Accessibility Blog

            AI Blog

            Customer Stories

            Education Stories

            Feature Stories

            Innovation Stories

            Microsoft Conexiones

            Microsoft Life

            Microsoft on the Issues

            Microsoft Research

            Microsoft Podcasts

            Official Microsoft Blog

    Product blogs
    Product blogs

            Azure

            Devices

            Microsoft 365

            Windows

            Xbox

            Security Blog

            AI for Business

            Microsoft Industry Blogs

                                Press Tools

            Image Gallery

            Press Releases

            Microsoft News on Twitter

            Events

            Executive Biographies

            Microsoft CEO

            Press Contacts

            Board of Directors

            Facts About Microsoft

            Investor Relations

            Worldwide News

            Video & Broll

            Executive Speeches

    Press Kits
    Press Kits

            Automotive and Mobility

            Dynamics 365

            Healthcare

            Manufacturing

            Microsoft 365

            Mixed Reality

            Philanthropies

            Surface

            Telecom

                            Source

        More

                         All Microsoft

            Global

            Microsoft 365

            Teams

            Copilot

            Windows

            Surface

            Xbox

            Deals

            Small Business

            Support

    Software
    Software

            Windows Apps

            AI

            Outlook

            OneDrive

            Microsoft Teams

            OneNote

            Microsoft Edge

            Skype

    PCs & Devices  
    PCs & Devices  

            Computers

            Shop Xbox

            Accessories

            VR & mixed reality

            Certified Refurbished

            Trade-in for cash

    Entertainment
    Entertainment

            Xbox Game Pass Ultimate

            PC Game Pass

            Xbox games

            PC and Windows games

            Movies & TV

    Business
    Business

            Microsoft Cloud

            Microsoft Security

            Dynamics 365

            Microsoft 365 for business

            Microsoft Power Platform

            Windows 365

            Microsoft Industry

            Small Business

    Developer & IT  
    Developer & IT  

            Azure

            Microsoft Developer

            Documentation

            Microsoft Learn

            Microsoft Tech Community

            Azure Marketplace

            AppSource

            Visual Studio

    Other
    Other

            Microsoft Rewards 

            Free downloads & security

            Education

            Gift cards

            Licensing

            Unlocked stories

                                    View Sitemap

                                        Search
                                        Search blogs.microsoft.com

                                         No results

                            Cancel

                        0
                        Cart
                        0 items in shopping cart

		Helping our customers through the CrowdStrike outage

						Jul 20, 2024

					|					
	David Weston - Vice President, Enterprise and OS Security

		On July 18, CrowdStrike, an independent cybersecurity company, released a software update that began impacting IT systems globally. Although this was not a Microsoft incident, given it impacts our ecosystem, we want to provide an update on the steps we’ve taken with CrowdStrike and others to remediate and support our customers. 

Since this event began, we’ve maintained ongoing communication with our customers, CrowdStrike and external developers to collect information and expedite solutions. We recognize the disruption this problem has caused for businesses and in the daily routines of many individuals. Our focus is providing customers with technical guidance and support to safely bring disrupted systems back online. Steps taken have included: 

Engaging with CrowdStrike to automate their work on developing a solution. CrowdStrike has recommended a workaround to address this issue and has also issued a public statement. Instructions to remedy the situation on Windows endpoints were posted on the Windows Message Center.  

Deploying hundreds of Microsoft engineers and experts to work directly with customers to restore services.  

Collaborating with other cloud providers and stakeholders, including Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Amazon Web Services (AWS), to share awareness on the state of impact we are each seeing across the industry and inform ongoing conversations with CrowdStrike and customers. 

Quickly posting manual remediation documentation and scripts found here.

Keeping customers informed of the latest status on the incident through the Azure Status Dashboard here. 

We’re working around the clock and providing ongoing updates and support. Additionally, CrowdStrike has helped us develop a scalable solution that will help Microsoft’s Azure infrastructure accelerate a fix for CrowdStrike’s faulty update. We have also worked with both AWS and GCP to collaborate on the most effective approaches.   

While software updates may occasionally cause disturbances, significant incidents like the CrowdStrike event are infrequent. We currently estimate that CrowdStrike’s update affected 8.5 million Windows devices, or less than one percent of all Windows machines. While the percentage was small, the broad economic and societal impacts reflect the use of CrowdStrike by enterprises that run many critical services. 

This incident demonstrates the interconnected nature of our broad ecosystem — global cloud providers, software platforms, security vendors and other software vendors, and customers. It’s also a reminder of how important it is for all of us across the tech ecosystem to prioritize operating with safe deployment and disaster recovery using the mechanisms that exist. As we’ve seen over the last two days, we learn, recover and move forward most effectively when we collaborate and work together. We appreciate the cooperation and collaboration of our entire sector, and we will continue to update with learnings and next steps.
